1. Java

Java is a general-purpose, concurrent, class-based, object-oriented computer programming language
that is specifically designed to have as few implementation dependencies as possible. It is intended
to let application developers "write once, run anywhere" (WORA), meaning that code that runs on
one platform does not need to be recompiled to run on another.
This cross-platform programming language is currently one of the most sought-after programming
skills for the developers.
Avg. Salary: $95,000
Top Hiring Cities: New York, Washington D.C, San Francisco, Boston, Chicago
Top Employers: Amazon, Disney, IBM, eBay, HP, Microsoft, Deloitte

2. C#

C# (pronounced see sharp) is a multi-paradigm programming language encompassing strong typing,
imperative, declarative, functional, procedural, generic, object-oriented (class-based), and
component-oriented programming disciplines. It was developed by Microsoft within its .NET
initiative and later approved as a standard by Ecma (ECMA-334) and ISO (ISO/IEC 23270:2006).
C# is one of the programming languages designed for the Common Language Infrastructure.
Although it's used mainly on Windows, C# is designed as a cross-platform language.
Avg. Salary: $91,000
Top Hiring Cities: Seattle, Atlanta, New York, Boston, Chicago
Top Employers: Microsoft, Amazon, HP, Intel, Digi-Key, Dell, Intel, Allscripts

3. SQL

SQL (Structured Query Language) is a special-purpose programming language designed for
managing data held in a relational database management system (RDBMS). The language has
become a standard for the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) in 1986 and of the
International Organization for Standards (ISO) in 1987. Since then, most businesses and websites
have databases that work behind the scenes and many of those databases rely on SQL.
Avg. Salary: $90,000
Top Hiring Cities: New York, Washington D.C, San Francisco, Boston, Chicago
Top Employers: Microsoft, UnitedHealth Group, Amazon, JP Morgan Chase, Dell, Citi, Disney

4. JavaScript

JavaScript is a part of the fabric of the Web. It is a multi-paradigm language, supporting object-
oriented, imperative, and functional programming styles. Its an interpreted computer programming
language and allows client-side scripts to interact with the user, control the browser, communicate
asynchronously, and alter the document content that is displayed. It has also become common in
server-side programming, game development and the creation of desktop applications.Almost every Web browser comprises a piece of JavaScript to make Web pages more interactive
among other things.
Avg. Salary: $88,000
Top Hiring Cities: New York, Washington D.C, San Francisco, Boston, Mountain View
Top Employers: Amazon, Disney, IBM, Dell, Microsoft, Yahoo!, Salesforce

5. HTML

HTML is one of the fundamental technologies that the Web is built upon. HTML elements form the
building blocks of all websites. HTML allows images and objects to be embedded and can be used
to create interactive forms. It provides a means to create structured documents by denoting
structural semantics for text such as headings, paragraphs, lists, links, quotes and other items. It can
embed scripts written in languages such as JavaScript which affect the behavior of HTML web
pages. These features will help developers and businesses better engage with their customers.
Avg. Salary: $81,000
Top Cities: New York, Washington D.C, San Francisco, Boston, Chicago
Top Employers: Amazon, Disney, IBM, eBay, Microsoft, AT&T, Fidelity

6. C++

C++, developed by Bjarne Strousup in 1983, is an enhancement of the programming language C.
The addition of object-oriented programming has given this high-level language some low-level
capabilities making it a good multi-purpose language capable of building stand-alone applications
as well as reusable code.
Avg. Salary: $94,000
Top Hiring Cities: Santa Clara, Seattle, San Francisco, New York
Top Employers: Amazon, Disney, HP, Intel, Microsoft, Qualcomm, The MathWorks

7. XML

Extensible Markup Language, or XML, is a markup language used to define document encoding
that has gone on to become the default for many office productivity suites. Where HTML is about
how information is displayed, XML is about transporting and storing data. The format is such that
the code is readable by both humans and machines.
Avg. Salary: $92,000
Top Hiring Cities: Washington D.C, Boston, San Francisco, New York, Atlanta
Top Employers: Amazon, Dell, AT&T, JPMorgan, Microsoft, Lorven Technologies, The MathWorks

8. C

C is arguably the most widely used and currently the most popular programming language,
according to the Tiobe Programming Community Index. A host of other programming languages
have borrowed from this general purpose language including, C#, Python, Java PHP and Perl.Avg. Salary: $93,000
Top Hiring Cities: Santa Clara, Seattle, San Francisco, New York, San Diego
Top Employers: Amazon, Dell, AT&T, JPMorgan, Microsoft, Lorven Technologies, The MathWorks

9. Perl

Larry Wall created Perl in 1987; it originally got its start as a general purpose Unix scripting
language. It has a hodge-podge of features from C, shell script, AWK and sed that is designed to
allow developers to work more easily with text data.
Avg. Salary: $93,000
Top Hiring Cities: San Jose, Seattle, San Francisco, New York, San Diego, Boston
Top Employers: Amazon, Dell, Intel, Qualcomm, Yahoo! Inc., eBay, Raytheon

10. Python

Python is high-level object-oriented programming language that developers can use in many ways.
Python is all about readability. It's uniform and streamlined syntax allows programmers to build
concepts more quickly and with less code.
Avg. Salary: $83,000
Top Hiring Cities: Seattle, San Francisco, New York, Boston
Top Employers: Amazon, Dell, Intel, Google, Yahoo! Inc., eBay, EMC
